Add GROQ extensions (#52)
sanity-io/GROQ: spec/Section 13 -- Extensions.md

Extensions
-------

# Extensions

Extensions are the capabilities which extend GROQ queries beyond basic Spec. These capabilities can include function namespaces, functions and operators. However, extensions can not introduce a new syntax.

## Portable Text Extension

### pt type

PT type represents an object following [portable text spec](https://github.com/portabletext/portabletext).

### global::pt()

This function takes in an object or an array of objects, and returns a PT value.

global::pt(args, scope):

* If the length of {args} is not 1:

>   * Return {null}.

Reviewer: This doesn't need to be handled here since it's already done by `global::ptValidate`.

2. If the object has [GeoJSON](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7946) representation.

Geo type supports following GeoJSON Geometry Objects:

1. `Position`
2. `Point`
3. `MultiPoint`
4. `LineString`
5. `MultiLineString`
6. `Polygon`
7. `MultiPolygon`
8. `GeometryCollection`

And, it does not support:
1. GeoJSON Object `Feature` and `FeatureCollection`. 
2. Arrays of geographic values. Instead, one of the GeoJSON `Multi` types should be used.

### global::geo()

This function is a constructor for geographic value. It takes an object or another geo value, returning a geo value.

global::geo(args, scope):

* If the length of {args} is not 1:
  * Return {null}.
* Let {baseNode} be the first element of {args}.
* Let {base} be the result of {Evaluate(baseNode, scope)}.
* If {base} is an object:
  * Try to parse it as Geo Point and GeoJSON:
  * If {base} is a valid geo value:
      * Return {base}.
* If {base} is a geo value:
  * Return {base}.
* Otherwise:
  * Return {null}.

global::geoValidate(args):

* If the length of {args} is not 1:
  * Report an error.

### geo::contains()

> Returns true if first geo argument completely contains the second one, using a planar (non-spherical) coordinate system. The first geo argument can be any geo value. The second must be a GeoJSON `Polygon` or `MultiPolygon`. A geo value is considered contained if all its points are within the boundaries of the first geo value. For `MultiPolygon`, it's sufficient that only one of the polygons contains the first geo value.

Reviewer: > The second must be a GeoJSON `Polygon` or `MultiPolygon`.

I think that both values can be of either type, although some of the are that useful (e.g. a `Point` will only contain a `Point` if it's the exact same).

* Let {baseNode} be the first element of {args}.
* Let {base} be the result of {Evaluate(baseNode, scope)}.
* If {base} is an object:
  * Try to parse it as Geo Point and GeoJSON:
  * If {base }is a valid geo value:
      * Return {base}.
* If {base} is a geo value:
  * Return {base}.
* Otherwise:
  * Return {null}.

global::geoValidate(args):

* If the length of {args} is not 1:
  * Report an error.

### geo::contains()

Returns true if when first geo value is completely contains the second one, that is polygon created by first geo value contains all the points represented in second geo value.

geo::contains(args, scope):

* If the length of {args} is not 2:
  * Return {null}.
* Let {firstNode} be the first element of {args}.
* Let {secondNode} be the second element of {args}.
* Let {first} be the result of {Evaluate(firstNode, scope)}.
* Let {second} be the result of {Evaluate(secondNode, scope)}.
* If {first} or {second} is a not a geo value:
  * Return {null}.
* If {first} completely contains {second}:
  * Return {true}.
* Otherwise:
  * Return {false}.

geo::containsValidate(args):

* If the length of {args} is not 2:
  * Report an error.

### geo::intersects()

> It takes in two geo point arguments and returns true if first geo value intersects the second one, that is polygon created by first geo value intersects with or contains atleast one of the edge represented in second geo value polygon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function takes two geo values, and returns true if they intersect in a planar (non-spherical) coordinate system. The arguments can be any geo values. A geo value intersects with another if it shares any geometric points with the second value; for example, a line crossing a polygon.
```

geo::intersects(args, scope):

* If the length of {args} is not 2:
  * Return {null}.
* Let {firstNode} be the first element of {args}.
* Let {secondNode} be the second element of {args}.
* Let {first} be the result of {Evaluate(firstNode, scope)}.
* Let {second} be the result of {Evaluate(secondNode, scope)}.
* If {first} or {second} is a not a geo value:
  * Return {null}.
* If {first} intersects {second}:
  * Return {true}.
* Otherwise:
  * Return {false}.

geo::intersectsValidate(args):

* If the length of {args} is not 2:
  * Report an error.

### geo::distance()

> It accepts two Geo Points or GeoJSON Points and returns the distance in meters. Lines/Polygons are not supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This functions accepts two geo values, which must be point values, and returns the distance in meters. While exact algorithm is implementation-defined — for example, it may use the [Haversine formula](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haversine_formula) — it should use as close an approximation to a real Earth distance as possible.
```

geo::distance(args, scope):

* If the length of {args} is not 2:
  * Return {null}.
* Let {firstNode} be the first element of {args}.
* Let {secondNode} be the second element of {args}.
* Let {first} be the result of {Evaluate(firstNode, scope)}.
* Let {second} be the result of {Evaluate(secondNode, scope)}.
* If {first} or {second} is a not a geo value:
  * Return {null}.
* If {first} or {second} is a not a Geo Point or GeoJSON Point:
  * Return {null}.

> * Let {distance} be the [HaverSine distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Haversine_formula) between {first} and {second}:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Let {distance} be the geographic distance between {first} and {second}:
```
